(1) regarding the uneven background: A good solution is to include a box of basic biology and bioinformatics terms, rather than putting them inside the text. (But do keep in mind the total length constraint..)
 
(2-3) I fully agree that the focus on compressive algorithms should be improved and that title should be more specific.
 
Please revise the manuscript in accordance to the reviewer's suggestion, and also provide an itemized response. In addition, here are some additional comments of mine:
 
a. Numerous references are made to [4], sometimes several times within the same paragraph. I realize this was a way to get around the limit on citations, but the result is odd. One solution would be to cite all the original references but split some of them to the supplement.
 
b. page 3 right, the sentence starting "A second way is to perform homology" is vague and would be lost for the CACM audience. [now defined in box]
 
c. page 5 right, what does "unblock many blocked reactions" mean? [defined in sentence now, but check for accuracy]
 
d. page 6 left "compressive genomics" is used here and is only defined later. B_D is not defined. The bottom paragraph was vague for me. [addressed and defined]
 
e. page 6 Table 1 please explain the meaning of the results in the caption. [I've attempted to address this]
 
f. page 7 left please discuss the issue of loss of solutions due to the compression method. [added paragraph]
 
g. some jargon used and not defined: transcriptome, FASTQ, caBLAST, caBLASTP

Review of Berger et al. "Computational biology in the 21st century: Algorithms
that scale"

This manuscript reviews computational problems that are faced in biology now
that that discipline is awash in huge amounts of data.  The manuscript
generally focuses on problems in sequence analysis (mapping, assembly, gene
expression, metagenomics, etc.) but also touches on chemical structure
databases and problems biological networks. This topic is of crucial importance
to biology, computational biology, and --- I would argue --- computer science,
and so the article is very timely.  The authors are leading researchers in
developing fast algorithms for these problems and have produced many of the
techniques cited in this review.

The statements made in the manuscript appear accurate to me, and as an expert
in computational methods for biology the manuscript was understandable.

However, there are a number of stylistic weaknesses and weaknesses in choice of
material that could be fixed in a revised version:

[1] It is not clear from the writing who the audience is for this article. On
the one hand common biological terms such as "model organism" are defined,
while more complex concepts and jargon are not (16S, shaped seeds, blocked
reactions, chemogenomics, de Bruijn). I suspect it would be difficult for a
general reader of CACM to follow some of this manuscript. Similarly, I think
the manuscript does not do enough to convince the general reader of the
interest or importance of the topics described.

[2] Though it is admirable to try to cover the breadth of biological data
types, the flow of the article is often somewhat disjointed as the context is
switched from genomics, to networks, to chemical databases. 

[3] It isn't clear what the overall point that the authors are trying to make
is.  There are some clear sub-points (use the structure of the data, a
hierarchical algorithmic approach often works well), but the article lacks a
strong, novel point of view.  This starts from the subtitle: "Algorithms that
scale". This has been a goal of computer science since its start. The article
would benefit from the development of a more specific story, a more decisive
point of view, and a stronger backbone. As just an example, a title or subtitle
such as "The success of compressive algorithms" and the corresponding changes
to make that the early and complete focus of the manuscript would result in a
stronger, more interesting article.

[4] More text could be spent synthesizing what is special and different about
biological "big data" than other (sometimes larger) data collections in other
disciplines.  Relatedly, the introduction spends a lot of time arguing for the
need for faster algorithms, which I think is a settled point nearly everywhere
in computer science. More interesting would be a more detailed discussion of
the situations in biology where faster algorithms are most crucial (this is
done with read mapping, but there must be others).

Minor points:

[5] If kept, the paragraph in section 3 starting with "Given a sequenced
genome..." should come before the paragraph that precedes it. [done]

[6] Burroughs-Wheeler is misspelled in section 1. (It should be Burrows)  [done]

[7] The sample size argument of section 5, paragraph 2 [there are a possible
20^500 proteins but only 6.9 x 10^7 are observed] is not persuasive. Such
"search-space-size" arguments are nearly always vapid.  This sentence is one of
a over
3984137914278306537107946300187788156651883090392267368064424070371960737746809881430938446547647791637956210590388569173298650466385810245792657795213961405107689148645376
possible strings of characters of this length. But I had to consider very few
of them to write it. I would find a more specific argument about evolution,
relatedness of species, or something else to argue that the low dimensionality
is surprising. [addressed]

[8] The last two paragraphs of the manuscript are somewhat disappointing. The
penultimate paragraph positions computational biology as a derivative field, an
applier of ideas from the broader CS community. The last paragraph deflates the
hope of computation driving science with the appeal to requiring wet-lab
experiments.  Neither paragraph is wrong, but their emphasis does not serve
computational biology well, in my opinion. 
